In this last section of the course we'll talk about custom the leaders for smart pointers.
This isn't something you're likely to see very often but I wanted to cover it for completeness since
they are a feature that C++ smart pointer support.
Sometimes when we destroy a smart pointer we need more than to just destroy the object on the heap.
Sometimes when we use pointers to see structures from C frameworks we have to provide a specialized
way of destroying them since in many cases they don't have destructors.
As I said these are special use cases that you won't run into very often but if you do the C++ smart
pointers allow you to provide custom to leaders that will be called when the smart pointer is destroyed.
If you use custom to leaders you can't use make shared or make unique when you create your smart pointer
objects since we need to provide our custom the leader and these functions don't support that.
The idea is that if you need a specialized way to let your objects you probably need a specialized way
to create them to.
There are lots of ways to provide custom to leaders.
I'll show you two ways in these slides.
First using a function and then using a lambda in the case of a function we write or deleter function
that will be called automatically when the smart pointer will be deleted.
This function will be provided with a raw pointer to the managed object that the smart pointer is referencing.
Then in this function you do whatever you need to do to relinquish your resources.
In this example I'm simply deleting the raw pointer.
That's it.
So now when you declare your smart pointer you provide your deleter function.
In this case I'm declaring PNTR as a shared pointer to some class and in the initializer I'm creating
the managed object using you.
But then I'm also passing in the name of my custom deleter function.
That's it.
Now when the pointer is destroyed it will call my leader.
Let's see a real code example using the test class that we've been using in this section.
So here we're creating a deleter function that will be passed in a raw pointer.
In this case it's a raw pointer to a test object and that pointer is the pointer that the smart pointer
is managing in this function.
I'm simply displaying in my custom the leader and then I'm deleting the raw pointer that was passed
to me.
That's it.
Now when I create the smart pointer object in this case TTR as a shared pointer I pass in my the leader
in the initialization list.
It's as simple as that.
This will also work for unique pointers Now let's see how this works using a lambda expression.
We haven't seen lambda expressions in this course since they're more of an intermediate C++ topic.
If there's interest in learning more about lambda expressions please let me know and I'll add a section
to the course.
In a nutshell a lambda is an anonymous function that is a function that has no name and can be defined
inline where you expect to use it.
There's a lot more to lambdas but you can see in this example that the function name parameter has been
replaced with a code block that looks very similar to what we originally wrote in the might lead or
function.
The syntax might look a little odd but now this code will execute whenever the pointer object is destroyed.
That's pretty cool.
We defined right where we will use it and not need to write another function have to worry about it
well that completes the section on smart pointers.
I hope you can see how powerful smart pointers are.
There are many opinions as to what types of smart pointers you should use when and the answer is usually
it depends.
I would encourage you to use unique pointers as often as you can.
Since they're simple efficient and in most cases the drop ins for many of the common pointer use cases
then use shared pointers when you have more complex object management semantics involving shared ownership
in the next video will do a simple challenge that uses a unique pointer to a vector of shared pointers.
It should be fun.
Ok so I'm back in the IDM and the section 17 workspace in the custom to leaders project and in this
project what would you as well write a couple of different ways to have our custom the leaders being
called.
And it's really really straightforward.
Let's do the function one first.
We've got the same test class that we've been using throughout this section.
You've seen it before so it should be pretty easy to understand what's going on there and what we want
to do is we want to create our own deleter that will be called when our objects are deleted.
This is it right here.
This name can be anything you like.
I just call it my dear leader it has to return void.
And what what's being passed into here is the raw pointer that's being managed.
So in other words if I've got a shared pointer to a test object on the heap we're going to get a pointer
to that test and is going to be the raw pointer.
If this was an account we'd get a pointer to an account object.
Again a raw pointer.
So that's the raw pointer that's being wrapped by that shared pointer.
OK so what do we do in here.
Well this is going to be called with that pointer we can do whatever we like in this case I'm just going
to say using my custom function to leader and then I'm actually going to delete that pointer right.
The whole point is for me to delete that storage.
Now this gets much more complicated when you've got raw pointers to see structures that are used in
C frameworks where they don't have destructors.
You've really got to manage that memory yourself and this is a nice way to do it and still be able to
use unique pointers and shared pointers and so forth.
So what do we do now.
Well now we can create our pointers.
It's called TTR one and it's a shared pointer to a test object.
Member the test objects on the heap.
We have to use new here to do this we can't use make shared and what we do is we pass in the regular
information that we're used to to create that object on the heap and then we pass in the name of our
leader.
In this case it's my deleter you can see the same name.
You don't have to put address of in front.
It doesn't hurt if you do but it is not necessary.
The name of a function already defaults to the location of the function.
So in this case what's going to happen behind the scenes is that when this pointer is delete when these
pointers delete it and has to clean up the memory it's going to call this function to do it.
And you can have complete control of how you do it.
So that's the function method.
The second way is using a lambda expression and what you'll see here is you could see our output statement
in our delete and you can see here output statement or delete.
The only difference is that it's being wrapped up in this construct right here and this is called the
lambda expression which creates a closure object.
And what's going to happen is when it's time to delete this rather than call a function.
This code right in here executes.
So this is real nice because you can write your code exactly where it's going to be used not somewhere
else.
Obviously this function could be anywhere but this is alright here it's real nice so when you're reading
this you can see exactly whats going to happen right and it's right there rather than having to find
a function to see what it does and that's it.
There's two different ways to do it.
If we run this now and actually you know what.
Let me change this to a thousand here so we can see the difference.
So what's going to happen here.
I notice I have created this block right here.
This is just an artificial scope here so that we can see that this PCR one will be deleted right here
ready to be destroyed and Peacher are to be destroyed right here.
So we expect TTR one to live inside this block and TTR to inside this block that we can really see them
and we can really see these leaders being called.
So let's execute this and will build and run and you can see right here.
I mean move this over here just a little bit.
This is this block right here you can see that we're constructing that test object with one hundred
and then we're using our custom function.
The leader.
You can see that that output statement is displaying we're deleting the pointer and then we're calling
the destructor.
Same thing here we're calling the test constructor with a then we're using our custom lambda the leader
which is this line right here and we're destroying our pointers while there and then we're calling the
test destructor.
So there you go.
Real simple example of using custom the leaders you don't often need these.
But it's nice to know that they're there and they're pretty easy to use actually.